en: Add the doc about renewing TLS certs (#1067)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/renew-tls-certificate.md

---
title: Renew and Replace the TLS Certificate

> summary: Learn how to renew and replace TlS certificates between TiDB components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to renew and replace TLS certificates between TiDB components.
```

    kubectl create secret generic ${cluster_name}-cluster-client-secret --namespace=${namespace} --from-file=tls.crt=client.pem --from-file=tls.key=client-key.pem --from-file=ca.crt=ca.new.pem --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
    ```

    In the above command, `${cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster, and `${namespace}` is the namespace deployed for the TiDB cluster.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > In the above command, assume that you refer to steps in [renew and replace the TLS Certificate](#renew-and-replace-the-tls-certificate) to back up the new CA certificate as `ca.new.pem`.

2. Perform the rolling restart to components that need to load the combined CA certificate, refer to [perform the rolling restart to the TiDB cluster](restart-a-tidb-cluster.md).

    After the completion of the rolling restart, each component can only accept the certificate issued by the new CA certificate.

## Renew and replace the certificate issued by the `cert-manager`

> If the original TLS certificate is issued by [the `cert-manager` system](enable-tls-between-components.md#using-cert-manager), and the original certificate has not expired, you can handle with the issue separately according to whether to renew the CA certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the original TLS certificate is issued by [the `cert-manager` system](enable-tls-between-components.md#using-cert-manager), and the original certificate has not expired, the procedure varies with whether to renew the CA certificate.
```

### Renew and replace the CA certificate and certificates between components

> When using `cert-manager` to issue the certificate, the `cert-manager` can automatically update the certificate before it expires by specifying the `spec.renewBefore` of the `Certificate` resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use `cert-manager` to issue the certificate, if you specify the `spec.renewBefore` of the `Certificate` resource, `cert-manager` can automatically update the certificate before it expires.
```

> Although `cert-manager` can automatically renew the CA certificate and the corresponding Kubernetes Secret objects, it currently does not support merging the old and new CA certificates into a combined CA certificate to accept certificates issued by the new and old CA certificates at the same time. Therefore, when renewing and replacing the CA certificate, the issue that TLS between cluster components can not authenticate each other might occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although `cert-manager` can automatically renew the CA certificate and the corresponding Kubernetes Secret objects, it currently does not support merging the old and new CA certificates into a combined CA certificate to accept certificates issued by the new and old CA certificates at the same time. Therefore, during the process of renewing and replacing the CA certificate, the cluster components cannot authenticate each other via TLS.
```

> **Warning:**
>

> > Because the certificates issued by the new and old CAs can not be accepted between components at the same time, renewing and replacing certificates needs to rebuild the Pods of some components. This might cause some requests to access the TiDB cluster to fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Because the components cannot accept certificates issued by the new and old CAs at the same time, during the process of renewing and replacing certificates, some components' Pods need to be recreated. This might cause some requests to access the TiDB cluster to fail.
```

The steps to renew and replace the CA certificates of PD, TiKV, TiDB and certificates between components are as follows.

1. The `cert-manager` automatically renews the CA certificate and the Kubernetes Secret object `${cluster_name}-ca-secret` before the certificate expires.

    `${cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster.

>     To manually renew the CA certificate, you can directly delete the corresponding Kubernetes Secret objects and trigger the `cert-manager` to regenerate the CA certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To manually renew the CA certificate, you can directly delete the corresponding Kubernetes Secret objects and trigger `cert-manager` to regenerate the CA certificate.
```

2. Delete the Kubernetes Secret objects corresponding to the certificate of each component.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl delete secret ${cluster_name}-pd-cluster-secret --namespace=${namespace}
    kubectl delete secret ${cluster_name}-tikv-cluster-secret --namespace=${namespace}
    kubectl delete secret ${cluster_name}-tidb-cluster-secret --namespace=${namespace}
    kubectl delete secret ${cluster_name}-cluster-client-secret --namespace=${namespace}
    ```

>     In the above command, `${cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster, and `${namespace}` is the namespace deployed for the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In the above command, `${cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster, and `${namespace}` is the namespace in which the TiDB cluster is deployed.
```

> 3. Wait for the cert-manager to issue new certificates for each component based on the new CA certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Wait for `cert-manager` to issue new certificates for each component based on the new CA certificate.
```

    Observe the output of `kubectl get secret --namespace=${namespace}` until the Kubernetes Secret objects corresponding to all components are created.

> 4. Rebuild the Pod of PD, TiKV and TiDB component in sequence forcibly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Forcibly recreate the Pods of the PD, TiKV, and TiDB components in sequence.
```

>     Because the `cert-manager` does not support combined CA certificates, if you try to perform a rolling update of each component, the Pods using the new and old CAs to issue certificates can not communicate normally based on TLS. Therefore, you need to delete the Pod forcibly and rebuild the Pod based on the certificate issued by the new CA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Because `cert-manager` does not support combined CA certificates, if you try to perform a rolling update of each component, the Pods using the different CAs to issue certificates cannot communicate with each other via TLS. Therefore, you need to delete the Pods forcibly and recreate the Pods based on the certificate issued by the new CA.
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```
    kubectl delete -n ${namespace} pod ${pod_name}
    ```

>     In the above command, `${namespace}` is the namespace deployed by the TiDB cluster, and the `${pod_name}` is the Pod name of each replica of PD, TiKV and TiDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In the above command, `${namespace}` is the namespace in which the TiDB cluster is deployed, and `${pod_name}` is the Pod name of each replica of PD, TiKV, and TiDB.
```

### Only renew and replace certificates between components

1. The `cert-manager` automatically updates the certificate of each component and the Kubernetes Secret object before the certificate expires.

>     For PD, TiKV and TiDB components, the namespace deployed by the TiDB cluster includes the following Kubernetes Secret objects:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For PD, TiKV, and TiDB components, the namespace in which the TiDB cluster is deployed contains the following Kubernetes Secret objects:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```
    ${cluster_name}-pd-cluster-secret
    ${cluster_name}-tikv-cluster-secret
    ${cluster_name}-tidb-cluster-secret
    ${cluster_name}-cluster-client-secret
    ```

    In the above command, `${cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster.

>     If you want to manually update the certificate between components, you can directly delete the corresponding Kubernetes Secret objects and trigger cert-manager to regenerate the certificate between components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you want to manually update the certificate between components, you can directly delete the corresponding Kubernetes Secret objects and trigger `cert-manager` to regenerate the certificate between components.
```

> 2. For certificates between components, each component automatically reloads the new certificates when creating the new connection later without manual operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. For certificates between components, each component automatically reloads the new certificates when creating the new connection later.
```

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > - Currently, each component does not support [reload certificates](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/enable-tls-between-components#reload-certificates) manually，you need to refer to [renew and replace the CA certificate and certificates between components](#renew-and-replace-the-ca-certificate-and-certificates-between-components).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > - Currently, each component does not support [reload CA certificates](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/enable-tls-between-components#reload-certificates) manually，you need to refer to [renew and replace the CA certificate and certificates between components](#renew-and-replace-the-ca-certificate-and-certificates-between-components).
```

    > - For the TiDB server-side certificate, you can manually reload by referring to any of the following methods:

>     >     - Refer to [Reload certificate, key, and CA](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/enable-tls-between-clients-and-servers#reload-certificate-key-and-ca)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    >     - Refer to [Reload certificate, key, and CA](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/enable-tls-between-clients-and-servers#reload-certificate-key-and-ca).
```
